---
layout: book
title: Shoe Dog: A Memoir by the Creator of Nike
author: Phil Knight
start: 20/03/2017
end: 26/03/2017
---

It has been a while since I have been gripped by a book such as this. It feels like an honest chat with the founder of Nike. No five steps to launch a successful start-up or a sure path to success. There are several moments where you feel like the company is going to fall apart.

Don't tell people how to do things, tell them what to do and let them surprise you with their results.

Life is growth. You grow or you die.

The cowards never started and the weak died along the way - that leaves us.

I had an aching sense that our time is short, shorter than we ever know, short as a morning run, and I wanted mine to be meaningful. And purposeful. And creative. And important. Above all...different.

There's a kind of exuberant clarity in that pulsing half second before winning and losing are decided.

The act itself becomes the desitination.

The man who moves a mountain begins by carrying away small stones-

Like books, sports give people a sense of having lived other lives, of taking part in other people's victories. And defeats. When sports are at their best, the spirit of the fan merges with the spirit of the athlete, and in the convergence, in that transference, is the oneness that the mystics talk about.

Somebody may beat me- but they're going to have to bleed to do it.

The best way to reinforce your knowledge of a subject is to share it

You measure yourself by the people who measure themselves by you.


When you make something, when you improve something, when you deliver something, when you add some new thing or service to the lives of strangers, making them happier, or healthier, or safer, or better, and when you do it all crisply and efficiently, smartly, the way every thing should be done but so seldom is - you're participating more fully in the whole grand human drama. More than simply alive, you're helping others to live more fully, and if that's business, all right call me a businessman.
